Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

SECRET

(4) Small coast patrol craft should be made available to the
Vietnamese Navy for purposes of restricting coastside supply
shipment from North Vietnam to the Viet Cong.

(5) In the intelligence area, again the immediate emphasis
should be shifted from conventional combat intelligence to
counter-guerrilla intelligence training at the battalion level.
Purther, an attempt should be made through training and material
support to strengthen the Vietnamese counter-intelligence effort
in order to frustrate the Viet Cong subversive threat. Finally,
RF equipment should be furnished so that am effort can be made to
locate Viet Cong radio transmitters.

Recommendations requiring coordinated inter-agency action

(1) Strengthen the Civil Guard by making MAAG spaces available
for trainers and by provision of small arms and other equipment
through MAP supply channels plus utilization of ARVN supply,
maintenance, and training facilities.

(2) During the emergency, the Civil Guard should be temporarily
put under the Ministry of Defense in order to integrate the ac-
tivities of the ARVN and the Civil Guard. The Ambassador's
concern that the Civil Guard will lose all identity as a civil
police force, if this action is taken, is invalid, providing a
strong US position to the contrary is announced and maintained.

(3) Emphasis on civic action type activities by the ARVN should
be encouraged and advisory and material assistance in this field
furnished through MAAP and ICA channels.

(4) The Department of State should reemphasize to the RKG the
necessity for according the right of "hot pursuit‚Äù to the ARVN
in its campaign against the Viet Cong. Since it is strongly
suspected that the Viet Cong maintain their headquarters within
Cambodia, and since considerable reinforcements to the Viet Cong
come through Cambodia, the US should tell the RKG that we explore
sheir inaction in suppressing this activity. The effectiveness
of the ARVN sweeps will be largely negated until the ROK takes
steps to deny its territory as a sanctuary to the Viet Cong.

(5) Most importantly for the purpose of strengthening the morale
of the Vietnamese, President Diem should be informed as soon as
possible through appropriate channels of the gravity with which
the US government views the internal security situation, of our
intent to provide material assistance, and of our unswerving sup-
port to him in this time of crisis.

1308

SECRET
