Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

of them, in exercise of the right of
individual or collective self-defense
recognized by Article 51 of the Char-
ter of the United Nations, will assist
the Party or Parties so attacked by

taking forthwith, individually and in
concert with the other Parties, such

action as it deems necessary, includ-
ing the use of armed force, to restore

and maintain the security of the North
Atlantic area.

"Armed force" is not specifically men-
tioned in the SEATO Treaty.7

Any such armed attack and all measures

taken as a result thereof shall imme-

diately be reported to the Security
Council. Such measures shall be
terminated when the Security Council
has taken the measures necessary to
restore and maintain international
peace and security.

[fhis requirement is not in the SHATO
Treaty. /

ARTICLE 6*

For the purpose of Article 5, an armed
attack on one or more of the Parties
is deemed to include an armed attack:

* As amended by Article 2 of the
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty
on the accession of Greece and Turkey.

endanger its own peace and safety,

and agrees that it will in that event
act to meet the common danger in

accordance with its constitutional
processes. Measures taken under this
paragraph shall be immediately
reported to the Security Council of
the United Nations.

[fhe SEATO Treaty specifically covers
non-members -- "any state" -- this is
not specific in the NATO Treaty./

3. It is understood that no action
on the territory of any State desig-
nated by unanimous agreement under
paragraph 1 of this Article or on
any territory so designated shall be
taken except at the invitation or

with the consent of the government

concerned.

/fhis understanding is not specific
in the NATO Treaty. /

ARTICLE VIIT
As used in this Treaty, the "Treaty

Area" is the general area of South-
East Asia, including also the entire

A-ho TOP SECRET - Sensitive
