DATE

2 Mar 1965

6 Mar 1965

14 Mar 1965

29 Mar 1965

31 Mar 1965

1 Apr 1965

2 Apr 1965

6 Apr 1965

7 Apr 1965

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 201 |

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

ROLLING THUNDER
Begins

Marines to Dalang

General H.K. Johnson
Report

US Embassy Bombed

State Memo to the
President

President Meets With
NSC and Taylor

MeCone Dissents from
1 Apr Decisions

NSAM 288

President's Johns
Hopkins Speech

a-15

DESCRIPTION

After being once postponed, the first
ROLLING THUNDER strikes take place.

The President decides to send two US
Marine Battalion Landing Teams to
DaNang to take up the base security
function. They arrive two days later.

After a trip to Vietnam, the Army
Chief of. Staff, General Johnson,
recommends a 2l-point program to the
President. Included are increased
attacks on the North and removal of
restrictions on these missions.

Just as Ambassador Taylor is leaving
for a policy conference in Washington,
the US Enbassy in Saigon is bombed by
ve terrorists with loss of life and

_ extensive property damage.

In a 41-point non-military recommen-
dation to the President, State elabo-
rates on a Taylor proposal.

At a meeting with Taylor and the NSC
Principais, the President approves the
hi-point non-military proposal, plus
General Johnson's 21-point proposal.
In addition, he decides to send two
more Marine battalions and an air wing
to Vietnam and to authorize an active
combat role for these forces. He also
authorizes 18,000-20,000 more support
forces.

In a meno.to SecState, SecDef, and
Ambassador Taylor, CIA Director John
MeCone takes exception to the decision
to give US troops a ground role. Jt is
not justified unless we take radically
stronger measures against North Vietnam.

NSAM 288 promulgates the decisions of
the 1 April meeting.

The President, in a speech at Johns
Hopkins, offers unconditional talks

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
