Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

SECRET

TRIPARTITE MEETING
FOREIGN MINISTERS OF FRANCE, UNITED KINGDOM, AND UNITED. STATES

New York, New york - September 1950

SUMMARY MINUTES? \
Fourth meeting, Thursday, September 14, 3:00 p.m.+

.

IV. Southeast Asia (Agenda Item 7 A)

10. M. Schuman expressed his approval of the state-
ments on Indo-China in wee paper on Southeast Asia
(Doc. 8, Sept. 1, 1950)â‚¬ He wished, however, to
make a few additional comments. France favored
large national armies in Indo-China. There were
already 77,000 troops in the armies of the three
Associated States and 44,000 Indo-Chinese nationals
in the army of the French Union. Great diffi-
culties were being encou 2ed in building up the
national armies. There was difficulty in finding
an adequate staff of trained officers and in
financing the equipment for the troops. The French
Union army in Indo-China now numbered 150,000 men.
Financing of this army also imposed a heavy burden
on France and assistance was urgently needed.

The proximity of Communist China was an additional
threat which made it necessary for France to request
direct tactical air support from the United States
in the event of Chinese Communist aggression.

This was in addition to the present need of France
for aircraft in Indo-China. Finally, in connection
with the tripartite conversations mentioned in

part B of Document 8 France would selcome /Sic/ in
particular military talks to discuss the means of
meeting Chinese Communist attacks on Indo-China.

loopy held in S/8-R.

eNot included here.
SECRET:

347
