Iv.C.1.

U. S. PROGRAMS IN SOUTH VIETNAM

DATE

20 Nov 1963

22 Nov 1963

26 Nov 1963

6 Dec 1963

17 Dee 1963

18-20 Dec
1963

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

NOVEMBER 1963 ~ April 1965

NSAM 273 - NSAM

CHRONOLOGY

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

Honolulu Conference

Kennedy Assassination

NSAM 273

Report on Long An

Province

NSC Meeting

SecDef Trip to
Vietnam

DESCRIPTION

Secretaries McNamara and Rusk and their
party meet with the entire US country
team and review the South Vietnamese
situation after the Diem coup.

President Kennedy is assassinated in
Dallas. ledge confers with the new
President, Johnson, in Washington, dur-
ing the next few days.

Drawing on the Honolulu Conference and
lodge's conversations with the Presi-
dent, NSAM 273 established US support
for the new Minh government and empha-
sized that the level of effort, econo-
mic and military, would be maintained
at least as high as to Diem. All US
and GVN efforts were to be concentrated
on the Delta where the VC danger was
ereatest. But the war remained basi-
cally a South Vietnamese affair to win
or lose.

A report by a USOM provincial represen-
tative on Long An Province, adjacent to
Saigon, describes the near conplete
disintegration of the strategic hamlet
program. The basic problem is the
inability or unwillineness of the ARVN
to provide timely support when villages
are under attack. Hamlets are being
overrun by the VC on an almost daily
basis. Ambassador Lodge forwards the
report to Washington.

After hearing a briefing by General
Krulak that falls short of giving an
adequate explanation for the Long An
report, the President decides to send
McNamara on another fact-finding trip.

During this quick visit to South Viet-
nam, McNamara ordered certain immediate

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
