DATE

12 Apr 1961

20 Apr 1961

27 Apr 1961

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

Rostow Memorandum for
President Kennedy

The Presidential
Program for
Vietnam

Gilpatric Task Force
Report submitted; the
NSC meets

DESCRIPITON

W. W. Rostow suggested several ways
for "gearing-up the whole Vietnam
operation.” These included: assign-
ing a first-rate, fulltime backstop
man in Washington to Vietnam affairs
(Lansdale); a Vice Presidential visit
in Southeast Asia; exploring ways to
use new American techniques and
gadgets in the fight against the VC;
replacing the ICA (AID) chie?; high-
level discussion of tactics for per-
suading Diem to broaden his govern-
ment; a Presidential letter to Dien
in which Kennedy would reaffirm
support for him but express the
urgency attached to finding a "more
effective political and morale
setting” for militery operations.

Deputy Secretary of Defense Gilpatric
was directed to appraise the current
status and future prospects of the
ve drive in South Vietnam, then
recommend a series of actions to
prevent communist dominetion of the

GVN.

(At this same time: the Bay of Pigs
invasion force surrendered and the
Laos crisis was coming to a head.)

Gilpatric and Lansdale headed a Task
Force established immediately to
carry out these instructions.

This first Task Force draft called
for a moderate acceleration of the
CIP program approved in January, with
stress on vigor, enthusiasm and strong
leadership. The report recommended
building on present US-GVN programs,
infusing them with a new sense of
urgency and creating action programs
in almost every field to create a
viable and increasingly democratic
government in SVN to prevent commu-
nist domination. No ARVN increase

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
