26.

16 Jan 68

25 Jan 68

29 Jan 68

31 Jan 68

3 Feb 68

5 Feb 68

10 Feb 68

23-25 Feb 68

' o7 Feb 68

28 Feb 68

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

White House meeting

Clifford testimony

Tet truce begins

Tet offensive

Jcsm 78-68

Warnke memo to McNamara

Haiphong struck

Wheeler visits Vietnam

Wheeler Report

‘CTIA memo

Clifford Group

. 23

Two new targets are author-
ized but the 5 n.m. zones are
reaffirmed.

Clark Clifford in his con-
firmation hearings states that’
"no advantage" means normal
resupply may continue.

The Tet truce begins but is
broken almost immediately by
communist attacks.

The VC/NVA attack all major
towns and cities, invade the
US Embassy and the Presidential
Palace. Hue is occupied and
held well into Feb.

Citing the Tet offensive, the
Chiefs ask for reduction of
the restricted zones to 3 and
Te ass

Warnke opposes the reduction

of the sanctuary because of

the danger of civilian casu-
alties. Reduction not approved.

After a month of restriction,
Haiphong is again struck.

Gen. Wheeler at the President's
Girection goes to Vietnam and
confers with Westmoreland on
required reinforcements.

Wheeler endorses Westmoreland's
request for 200,000 more men.

Hanoi unlikely to seek nego-
tiations but rather will press
the military campaign.

The President asks Clifford to
conduct a high-level "A to Z"
review of US policy in Vietnam.
The Group meets at the Pentagon
and work begins. It continues
until a DPM is finally agreed
on Mar.. 4.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
