Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

APPENDIX: A

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

A COMPARISON OF THE WORDING OF THE NATO AND SEATO TREATIES

NOTES:

“1. In this layout, sections of the SEATO Treaty are transposed for comparison

with like sections of the NATO Treaty.

No words have been omitted.

2. Significant passages pointing out differences are underlined.

3. Comments are in brackets.

NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY

The Parties to this Treaty reaffirm
their faith in the purposes and prin-
ciples of the Charter of the United

- Nations and their desire to live in
peace with all peoples and all Gov-
ernments.

They are determined to safeguard the
freedom, common heritage and civiliza-
tion of their peoples, founded on the’
principles of democracy, individual
liberty and the rule of law.

They seek to promote stability and
well-being in the North Atlantic area.

They are resolved to unite their
efforts for collective defense and for

the preservation of peace and security.

They therefore agree to this North
Atlantic Treaty:

* Effective 24 August 19h9

A-37

SEATO TREATY

The Parties to this Treaty,

Recognizing the sovereign equality of
all .the Parties,

Reiterating their faith in the pur-
poses and principles set forth in the
Charter of the United Nations and
their desire to live in peace with
all peoples and all governments,

Reaffirming that, in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations,
they uphold the principle of equal
rights and self-determination of
peoples, and declaring that they will
earnestly strive by every peaceful

_means to promote self-government and

to secure the independence of all
countries whose peoples desire it and
are able to undertake its responsi-
bilities,

Desiring to strengthen the fabric of
peace and freedom and to uphold the
principles of democracy, individual
liberty end the rule of law, and to
promote the economic well-being and
development of all peoples in the
Treaty Area,

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
