DATE

30 Nov 64

1 Dee 64

1 Jan 65

Jan and Feb

1965

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR

"Alternatives to

Air Actions on
North Vietnam"

Presidential
Decision

OPLAN 32-6)

MACV Monthly
Evaluation
Reports; CIA
Situation
Reports

DESCRIPTION ii

(State Dept) A proposal to use ground
troops "in support of diplomacy‚Äù:
deploy them to prove U.S. resolve, then
launch a major diplomatic offensive.
This paper was considered by the NSC
Working Group, but went no further.

President Johnson approved the recom-
mendation of Ambassador Taylor and NSC
principals to implement the Working
Group's "Course of Action A"; after
about a month and after GVN progress in
certain areas, Course C -- a program
"principally of progressively more
serious air strikes" against NVN would
be initiated. Again, ground troop
commitment was not discussed.

The "alert" or first phase of the plan

-in effect. (MACV Command History shows

planning had begun for the dispatch of
U.S. ground troops into South Vietnam in
connection with this and other contin-
gency plans.)

General Westmoreland said recently
initiated "Flaming Dart" air campaign
against the North was beneficial for
morale in South Vietnam. He called GVN
social and political institutions
"remarkably intact" despite the "disin-
tegrating blows" of political upheaval.
(Huong's government fell in January;
Premier Quat's regime was shaky.) But
enemy gains continued. The Viet Cong

struck Pleiku and other bases in early

February; 12 battalions (6000 men) had ~
reportedly moved into the I Corps.

-Westmoreland hoped air attacks in North

viii

and South Vietnam would be enough to
reverse the trend.

CIA assessments were more pessimistic.
In February Binh Dinh Province was said
to be just about loSt to the enemy.
Intelligence indicated the Viet Cong
might try to take Kontum Province and
split the GVN through II Corps during
the rainy season.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
