Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

751G.5MAP/8-750: Secret File

INCOMING TELEGRAM

FROM: Saigon Â° Rec'd: August 7, 1950
7:10 p.m.
TOs Secretary of Stats

NO: 170, August 7, 5 p.me

Survey mission has completed initial report on military
assistance for Indochina which is being dispatched to FMACC
by courier. Basically the French objectives appear to
coincide with US objectives in the country. The military
Situation confronting the French in Indochina is

internal against the Viet ilfinh and impending external
against Comnunist China. The French forces after approxi-~
mately 5 years of warfare are stalemated against Eo Chi
Minh and appear to have lost considerable amount of offensive
spirit. This failure to restore internal security is ate
tributed by French to lack of cooperation of noncomnunist
people and deep seated hatred and distrust of French .
which exists among large part of the population. Military
ection alons cannot solve this internal security problem.

A political solution which includes concessions on the part
of France and definite plans possibly backed by the US or
the UN for eventual independence if Vietnam Cambodia and
Laos is a necessary complement to military action. The
overall assistance (military, economic and political) re-
quested up to this time is considered inadequate to fully
constmmate US broad objectives in Indochina and assistance
will have to be provided to the French Indochina on an
increased scale to resist the encroachment of Communism

in SBA. < e's

HEATH
JAK:RFB

SECRET

343
