Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

of the South Vietnamese people to any major U.S. combat deployment was
uncertain, and because the net effectiveness of U.S. combat forces in the
Vietnamese environment was also uncertain, the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Defense had recommended that action of this sort be limited.
Only the deployment of two additional Marine battalions, one Marine air
squadron and certain logistical forces over the ensuing sixty-day period
was approved, Continuation of ROLLING THUNDER operations on a slowly
ascending scale was assumed, It was also assumed that preparations would be
made for additional strikes and for a response to any higher level of VC
operations, as well as, correspondingly, to slow the pace in the unlikely
event that VC actions slacked off sharply. 143/

In the NSC meeting of 1 April 1965, the President gave his formal ap-
proval, "subject tomodifications in the light of experience," to the 41-
point program of non-military actions submitted by Ambassador Taylor and
described above. He gave general approval to the USIS recommendations,
except that no additional funds were to be supplied for this work -- the
program was to be funded and supported by other agencies, The President
further approved the urgent exploration of the covert actions proposed by
the Director of Central Intelligence, Finally, he repeated his previous
approval of the 2l-point program of military actions recommended by General
Johnson. On the exclusively military side the President authorized the
18,000 to 20,000-man increase in U.S. military support forces, the deploy-
ment of two additional Marine battalions, and the change of mission for all
Marine battalions to permit their use in active combat under conditions to
be established and approved by the Secretary of Defense in consultation with
the Secretary of State. However, because this last decision was contingent
upon future agreements. between the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Defense its full significance was not immediately apparent. It was left to
the Ambassador to seek South Vietnamese government approval and coordina-.
tion for all of these measures, 1/

NSAM-328 did not last long as a full and current statement of U.S.
policy. There were some responsible officials who had misgivings about
increasing our involvement in South Vietnam or about increasing it more
rapidly than might be necessary. There were others who apparently felt
that NSAM-328 risked falling between two stools, One such was John A,

_ MeCone, Director of CIA (who was perhaps also unhappy about the increasing
involvement per se). The day after the 1 April meeting he addressed a
memorandum expressing second thoughts to the Secretary of State, the Secre-
tary of Defense, the Special Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs and Ambassador Taylor. The change in the U.S. role from ~
merely giving advice and static defense, to active combat operations against
Viet Cong guerrillas, appeared to bother him, He felt our ground force
operations would very possibly have only limited effectiveness against guer-
rillas, and above all, he felt the conduct of active combat operations in

113 Â° TOP SECRET - Sensitive
