Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET

hae uses within China provided safeguards are established to accomp-
lish the two objectives mentioned above. Three reasons exist for
this position: (eae) Japan's economy cannot possibly be restored to a
self-sustaining basis without a considerable volume of trade with
China, the burden of Japan on the whited States economy cannot be re-
fo moved unless Japan's economy is restored to a self-sustaining basis
and U. S. interference with natural Japanese trade relations with
Chine woud produce profound Japanese hostility; (2) permitting trade
with Communist China in goods destined for normal civilian end uses
Weve China will enable us to obtain quantities of important commod-
ities needed by the U. 8S. (e.g., tung oil, bristles, tungsten, anti-
mony, etc. ) and might contribute to internal economic and political
"tensions between the urban and rural sectors of the Chinese economy,
and permit China to choose between a Soviet and a Western orientation
in their foreign economic relations; and (3) restriction of trade for
any purpose other than those indicated by the objectives outlined
‘above would be ineffective and impractical in view of the existence
of alternative sources of supply in other countries which will not
cooperate in export controls affecting normal trade with Chine. ‘The
U. S. should seek the cooperation of friendly countries in exercising
export controls to achieve the objectives indicated, and request SCAP
to conform to our general policy in this respect. While SCAP should
be requested to avoid preponderant dependence on Chinese markets and
sources of supply he should not be expected to apply controls upon
Japan's trade with China more restrictive than puoas applied by West-
my ‘en Evropeen countries in their trade with Chins. At the same time,

263

NSC 48/1 bone TOP SECRET
