50.

lis

52,

23Â°

5h.

2D

56.
5T-

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

From. Geneva, tels. DULTE 7, April 26; DULTE 30, and DULTE 34,

April 30, 1954, all TOP SECRET. Secretary Dulles told Mr. Eden that
the initial nucleus in the proposed Southeast Asian defense plan
should comprise Thailand, the Philippines, Australia, and New
Zealand, as well as the United States, the United Kingdom, France,
and the Associated States of Indochina (from SAAS tel. DULTE 33,
April 30, 1954, TOP SECRET). R.P. No. 370.

Memorandum by McBride (WE) of conversation among Dulles, Smith (U),
R. G. Casey (Australia), and T. C. Webb (New Zealand), in Geneva,
May 2, 1954, SECRET; see also from Canberra, tel. 257, May 7, 1954,
SECRET. Baan NGge ey

To Geneva, tel. TEDUL 16, April 28, 1954 (containing summary by
Robert Cutler of the White House staff, of principal points made by
the President), TOP SECRET. R.P. No. 370.

For an account of Admiral Radford's conversations with British
leaders in London, see from London, tel. 4725, April 26, 1954, TOP
SECRET; to Geneva, tel. JCS 960578, April 27, 1954, TOP SECRET.
Rab. No. S/O.

To Geneva, tel. TEDUL 16, April 28, 1954, TOP SECRET; memorandum by
Cutler (White House staff) of conversation in the President's
office among the President, General Smith (U), Admiral Radford, and
himself, April 28, 1954, TOP SECRET. R.P. No. 370.

From Geneva, tel. DULTE 2, April 25, 1954, TOP SECRET; from Paris,
tel. 4266, May 7, 1954, CONFIDENTIAL; White House Press Releases
(2), May 7; 1954.

Department of State Press Release No. 4, May 11, 1954.

For the official conference transcript see Department of State
Bulletin, XXX, No. 778, May 24, 1954.

B-36 TOP SECRET - Sensitive
