DATE
6 Apr 66

8 Apr 66

9 Apr 66

12 Apr 66

14 Apr 66

. May 66

15 Mey 66

16 May 66

21 Mey 66

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316, By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT GR

COMUSMACV Com=
mand History
1966, p. 82h

COMUSMACV Com-
mand History

1966, p. 824

COMUSMACV Com-
mand Eistory
1966, p. 82h

COMUSMACY Com-
mend History
1966, p. 324;
Kehin end Lewis
The U.S. in Viet-
ham, p. 25
COMUSMACY Con.
mand History
1966, p. 32h;
Kehin and Lewis
The U.S. in Viet-
Nem, Pe 25

Kehin and Lewis
The U.5. in Viet-
nem, DP. 2593
Saigon to State
4368 4 Mey and
4605 15 May

State to Saigon
3448, 34hO, 3h50
end 3451 15 May

Saigon to State
4627 and 4635
16 Mey

State to Saigon
3575 21 May

Non-essential U.S. civilians removed fron
Hue. 3 -

GVN flies two additional Ranger battalions
to Daneng efter MACV refused to do 60.

U.S. protest to Struggle Movement leaders
induces then to pull back howitzers. Two
hundred U.S. and third country civilians

evacuated from Danang.

GVN withdraws ite Ranger battalions from
Danang. Relative quiet returns.

The Directorate promises elections for a
constituent assembly with 3-5 months.
Bud√©hists and others call off demonstra-
tions. ,

Ky publicly reneges on promises to hold
August elections, says perheps they will
be possible by October. Lodge absent on
long trip to Washington. Portex follows
State guidance closely.

GVN airlifts troops to Danang and Hue to
quell new disorders. U.S. witholds air-
Lift protests GVN failure to consult,
withdraws advisors from both sides.

USMC General Walt threatens to use U.S.
jets to shoot down any VNAF eircraft
used egainst dissident ARVN units. The
threat succeeds.

Lodge returns, tells Ky to be concilistory,
use force with restraint. He does around
Saigon pagodas, but naked force in Hue
produces self-inmolations. U.S. evacuates
its consulete and other facilities there.

TOP SECRET = Sensitive
