It

22 Sep 66

23 Sep 66

2h. Sep 66

2h Sep 66

29 Sep 66

1 Oct 66

2 Oct 66

5 Oct 66

5 Oct 66

'

6 Oct 66

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

CM-1774-66

State 53541 to Saigon

MACV 8371 to Sharp
and Wheeler

JCSM 613-66

ASD(SA) Memo for SecDef

SAIGON 7332

MACV 43926

MACY 4378

ASD(SA) Memo for SecDef

SecDef Meno for CJCS

1x

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
tells SecDer that piaster costs per
man of US forces are several times
those of GVN forces. However, he does
not see any pilaster advantages from
feasible exchanges.

State calls news of size of infla-
tionary gap in Saigon's 15 September
message very disturbing.

Westmoreland reviews VC/NVA's recent
campaign and assesses the effective-
ness of US campaigns. Does not
mention pacification.

JCS forward their final evaluation of
CINCPAC's 18 June submission and the
results of their evaluation of the
SecDef's Issue Papers, from 5 August.

Fnthoven tells SecDef he is review-
ing JCSM-613-66 and forwards some
new deployment Issue Papers to
Secretary of Defense.

Iedge, in a message to Rusk, McNamara
and Komer, sets forth his proposal on
piaster ceilings. Sets a piaster
ceiling of 42 billion on military
spending in South Vietnam.

MACV recommends to CINCPAC and JCS
deployment of Caltrop for operational
tests ASAP.

Westmoreland submits his reclama to
Lodge's proposal for a piaster budget
ceilings.

Dr. Enthoven analyzes Lodge's message
of 1 Oct for SecDef. Points out dif-
ferences in spending associated with
different deployments small relative
to cther uncertainties. Terms Iodge's
estimates on holding inflation down
optimistic.

SecDef forwards another set of deploy-

ment Issue Papers to the Joint Chiefs
of Staff.

TOP SHCRET ~- Sensitive
