Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

y. Expectations

There seems to be sufficient evidence to conclude that General
Westmoreland and his staff saw in the deployment of the Marines the
beginning of greater things to come. The 1965 Command History says
as much, and the rapidity with which the staff followed on the Marine
BLT's with more proposals would tend to back up such a conclusion.
It hardly seems a coincidence that General Johnson, immediately
following his briefings by MACY, returned to Washington and recom-
mended, among other things, that a U.S. division be deployed to SVN.
CINCPAC, although obviously concerned with OPLANs and their focus
on troop deployments, comes out clearly in his cable traffic for
reliance on air power for the moment and for troop commitment to
secure bases only. The JCS, because they had yet to address the
overall question of U.S. ground force deployments, necessarily saw
the Marine deployments as a stopgap measure to insure the security
of U.S. lives and property in case of a partial or total GVN
collapse. Traffic between the Embassy and the Department of State
indicated that further ground force deployments as a deterrent to
NVN invasion were in the thinking but were not yet in the proposal
stage, and the Ambassador clearly had serious objections to further
troop input. It appears that for the moment, with the possible
exception of General Westmoreland, his staff, and perhaps an im-
portant ally in the person of General Johnson in Washington, the
Marine deployment was taken at face value and that the official
Washington hopes were pinned on early NVN response to the Rolling
Thunder pressure, then just in its beginning stages.

19 TOP SECRET - Sensitive
