DATE

31 Mar 1965

1 Apr 1965

2 Apr 1965

5 Apr 1965

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

CINCPAC msg. to JCS
310407 Mar.

NSC meeting with Taylor

McGeorge Bundy memo

NSC meeting

Rostow memo to SecState

NSC meeting

MeCone dissents from
Presidential decision

Canadian Prime Minister
suggests pause

JCSM-265-65

XVil

DESCRIPTION

CINCPAC recommends a spectacular attack
against the North to retaliate for the
bombing of the Embassy. The President
rejects the idea.

The President meets with Taylor and the
NSC to begin a major policy review.

Bundy recommends little more than a con-
tinuation of the ongoing modest RI pro-
gram, gradually hitting the LOC choke
points, He does, however, recommend re-
moving the restriction on the Marines to
static defense. Focus is on winning in
SVN.

The White House policy review continued
with another meeting of the principals.

In a memo to Rusk, Walt Rostow proposes
knocking out the DRV electric power grid
as a means of bringing her whole urban
industrial sector to a halt.

At the NSC meeting the President approves
the Bundy recommendations including the
proposal to allow US troops in Vietnam a
combat role.

CIA director McCone circulates a memo
dissenting from the Presidential decision
to have US troops take part in active
combat. He feels that such action is not
justified and wise unless the air attacks
on the North are increased sufficiently to
really be physically damaging to the DRV
and to put real pressure on her.

Canadian Prime Minister Lester Pearson in
a speech in Philadelphia suggests that the
US call a halt to the bombing in the in-
terests of getting negotiations started.
The JCS report confirmation of the con-
struction of a SAM missile site near Hanoi
and request authority to strike it before
it becomes operational. Their request is
not acted on at the time.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
