DATE

22 Feb 65

oh Feb 65

2h Feb 65

26 Feb 65

28 Feb 65

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR
DOCUMENT

MACV Message
to JCS

CINCPAC Message
to JCS

JCSM 130-65

DEPTEL 1840

EMBIEL 2789

xi TOP SECRET - Sensitive

DESCRIPTION

However, because Westmoreland was so
concerned about Da Nang's safety and
because laylor felt security was a
legitimate mission for U.S. troops
although he objected to it, the Am-
bassador would support MACV's recom-
mendation for one BLT. He suggested
GVN approval be sought prior to the
Marine deployment,

Claimed the Marine deployment to Da Nang
would free four Regional Force companies,
one tank platoon and another RF battalion
then being formed for active anti-VC
operations. (The March MACV Evaluation
Report showed only two RF companies had
been released.)

Recommended immediate deployment of two
_BLTs; recommended one squadron of F-ls
be sent to Da Nang for close air support
of the troops and "for other missions
along with the primary mission." The
tone was urgent: deploy now "before the
tragedy" of a Viet Cong attack.

~

CINCPAC disagreed with Taylor; called
attention to the Marine Corps' dis-
tinguished record in counterinsurgency
operations; claimed U.S. presence would
free ARVN for mobile patrol operations
and make Da Nang a tougher target for
enemy forces.

Forwarded and supported CINCPAC's recom-
mendations. Â©

. Approved the deployment; said the Marines

were on their way and instructed Taylor
to secure GVN approval.

Taylor agreed to seek GVN concurrence 10
the deployment -- and planned an approach
designed to stress U.S. reluctance to
deploy any men even temporarily, empha-
Size the limited mission of the Marines
and discourage GVN hopes for further
commitments. Taylor would open by
