Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
SECRET

OCT 25 1950
AMLEGATION

SAIGON
436

In view both State and Defense IMMED POLIT and MIL
advantages sought in NATL army plan must be found THRU
IMMED integration into NATL army commanded by Bao Dai
of armed netive contingents such as Caodists, Hoa Hao,
Catholics, etc. Technical difficulties inherent,in this
effort well known but must somehow be overcome. Â°

Caodists offer (LEGTEL 638) development of highest
importance in DEPTS opinion. We believe every possible
effort SHLD be made by LEG, EMB Paris and DEPT to get
these men in the fight as part of the new NATL army.

Discussions with Bishops Thuc and Chi and Ngo
Dinh Diem during past month centered in large part
around DEPTS expressed conviction that MIL forces of
Bishop must become part of NATL army at once. DEPT
believes that these conversations will bear fruit and
will advise developments soonest.

Technical conversations PRELIM to Moch-Petsche con-
ferences FR MIL stated that siventy-six thousand suppletives
CLD be incorporated ULTLY into the NATL armies. These
they describe as three state forces including regulars
and irregulars (see DEPTEL 307, SEP .27).

LEG advise DEPT and Paris of any steps believe
practical to expand Caodists offer and incorporation
suppletives NATL armies. |.

ACHESON

SECRET

393
