DATE

25 May 64

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR
DOCUMENT

McGeorge Bundy
Memorandim to
Rusk, et.al.

DESCRIPLION

NVN considerably, the SNIE estimated
NVN would lower negotiating demands
to »vreserve its regime -- and plan
to renew insurgency later. The SNIE
saw "significant danger" thet Hanoi
would fight because (1) NVN did not
think the U.S, would commit ground
forces and (2) even if U.S. troops
were sent, NVN believed they could
be defeated A la 1954. Affecting
the will of NVN leaders was em-
phasized. None of the actions fore-
cast in the DPM would affect enemy
capabilities because the major
sources of “communist strength in
SVN are indigenous." The SNIE said
the DRV must (be made to) understand
that the U.S, -- not seeking to
destroy NVN -- is willing to "bring
ascending pressure to bear to per-
suade Hanoi to reduce the insurrec-
tions.” The report added "...
retaliatory measures which Hanoi
might take in Laos and South Vietnam
might make it increasingly difficult
for the U.S. to regard its objectives
as attainable by limited means.

Thus difficulties of comprehension
might increase on both sides as the
scale of action mounted."

The ExCom abandoned the scenario
approach -- perhaps because entering
into escalating conflict might ob-
secure the limited U.S. objectives.
The ExCom recommended the President
decide that the U.S. will use gradu-
ated military force against NVN
after appropriate diplomatic and
political warning and preparation;
evident U.S. determination to act

=- combined with other efforts --
“should produce a sufficient improve-
ment of non-communist prospects in
South Vietnam and in Laos to make
military action against North Viet-
nam unnecessary."

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
