ie

Te

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

JCSM 739-66, "Deployments to Southeast Asia and Other PACOM Areas (U),"

dated 2 December 1966. See Section I, above, for the Pree ea les of
deployment decisions prior to this memorandum.

See Memorandum for the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from
Secretary of Defense, Subj: "Deployments to SRA and Other PACOM
Areas (U)," dated 9 December 1966. The JCS asked direct substitu-
tion of approximately 15,000 troops to provide "balanced forces."
SecDef approved JCS recommendations for an additional A-1 squadron
in Thailand, but advised that "...any additional requests to out-
of-country areas should be fully justified as to their relation to
the conflict in SRA." Another related issue, broached by Systems
Analysis, was whether or not to announce to the Chiefs that the
barrier plan about to be approved would be manned by MACV from
forces within currently approved personnel strengths. If so, SA
recommended that JCS should be requested to resubmit their recom-
mendations on that basis. This was not done. See Memorandum from
ASD(SA) for Secretary of Defense, Subj: "Deployments to SEA and
Other PACOM Areas," dated 7 December 1966.

The New York Times, 16 January 1967.

The New York Times, 18 January 1967. See Section I for discussion
of the 100,000-man figure in COMUSMACV-CINCPAC messages.

The New York Times, 22 January 1967.

The CIA Analysis of ROLLING THUNDER (CIA SC No. 0442/67, Jamary
1967) had fallen into Senator Fulbright's hands and he was threat-
ening to use it in his Vietnam hearings. Its conclusion, that the
bombing was relatively ineffective given the political constraints,
was confirmed by the McNamara testimony before the joint session of
the House Armed Services Committee and Senate Sub-Committee on

23 January 1967.

A JCSM published a week later reveals that the JCS firmly believed
",..that, in their judgment, there /was/ no military justification
to reduce the strength of U.S. forces in Europe." (JCSM 46-67,
Subj: "Redeployment of U.S, Forces Withdrawn from Europe (U),"
dated 28 January 1967). One can speculate ad infinitum about
Mansfield's motives and about with whom he was allied, but one

can hardly deny that he, the Chiefs, the President and the Secre-
tary of Defense were not acutely aware of just about at what point
CONUS military manpower resources would be exhausted.

The New York Times, January 1967. There was an audible sigh of

relief when the Salisbury dispatches ended on 18 January. However,
five days later, Bill Boggs, of the Miami News, was filing reports
from Hanoi which substantially corroborated Salisbury's stories
about civilian casualties and the bombing.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
