DATE

2 Dee 66

December 1966

8 Dec 66

December 1956

21 Dee 65

January 1967

2 Jan 67

7 Jen 67

13 Jan 67

20 Jan 67

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET = Sensitive

EVENT OR

Saigon to State
12321 2 Dec

Saigon to State
14009 22 Dec,
12733 «= ~Dec,
12908 and 12950
9 Dec, 13046

10 Dec, 14009 and
13023 22 Dec,
W112 23 Dec,
14230 26 Dec

COMUSMACV to
CINCPAC O802h5z2
Dec

Saigon to State
15569 13 Jan 67

COMUSMACV History
1966 pp. 471-72

NWiTimes Article

Saigon to State
14725 2 Jan

NYTimes Article

Saigon to Stete
15569 13 Jen

Saigon to Stete
16037 20 Jen

xiv

DESCRIPTION

Saigon declines to suggest formation of
a joint inspectorate general to follow up
ATID diversions.

Further GYN-USOM negotiations on the
dollar balance problem.

Ceremonial singing of the 1967 Combined
Cempaign Plen by COMUSMACV end Chief, JGS.

Saigon Port congestion grows worse during
GVN port commander's "great barge”
experiment. State authorizes drastic
action which Saigon declines to use.

Chinh-Hunnicutt effair terminated with
transfer of the U.S. adviser outside the
theatre and issuertce of a memorandum by
the divicion commander steting. that the
past must be forgotten.

U Thant advances proposals for peace.
President promises careful evaluation.
Ky forsees negotistions nearing. Lodge
predicts sensational militery gains in
1967.

U.S. Mission estimates GYN inflationary
budget gap at Lh-20 billion plasters.

Ky signs laws providing for spring
elections in 1000 villeges and 4000 han-
lets.

Saigon resists Washington suerestion for
complete MACY tekeover of Saigon port.

GVN issues Cy 1967 budget of 75 billion

piasters without prior consultation with
U.S.

TOP SECRET = Sensitive
