Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

commensurate with the objective sought. It must also be backed
. by credible sanctions.

ee The various tools of leverage available to us are described
below. It is not proposed that all of these tools be used at
any given time or that some of them be used at all. However,
they represent a selection of arrows that might be placed in the
US Mission quiver for use as the Mission Council deems appro-
priate. It will be particularly important to construct a
credible and effective system of US leverage for use as neces-
sary and appropriate in connection with the list of priority
program objectives which we shall be seeking to achieve with
the newly elected government in the immediate post-election
period.

Tools of Leverage

ee A wide range of possible techniques and forms of influence
is available at each level of the American presence in Vietnam.
A few of these leverage devices are now in use, mostly at the
initiative of individual Americans on the spot, but not as part
of an organized framework of influence. Other devices have
been instituted in the past, only to be subsequently abandoned
because of fear of their misuse, actual misuse, or inadequate
understanding of their value.

In the following list we array a range of possible instruments
of influence that the US might employ, with some indication of
their applicability.

A. Rapportec.

B. Joint Planning and Evaluation...

C. Joint Inspection and Audit...

D. Joint Secretariats...

E. The JCRR approach: Establishing a joint, autonomous,
dually-staffed, foundation-like organization headed by a board
of commissioners appointed by the two heads of state, to ad-
minister all forms of non-military AID...

F. Contingency Funds and Special Resources...

G. Control Over Expenditure of Counterpart Piasters...

H. Retention of Resources in US Channels...

57 - TOP SECRET - Sensitive
