2 Mar 64

2 Mar 64

15 Mar 64

16 Mar 6)

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR
DOCUMENT

JCSM 168-64

JCSM 174-6)

Lodge Msg. for
the President
(State 1757)

SecDef Memo for
the President

xiii

DESCRIPTION

were openly violated), large
numbers of U.S. troops will
eventually be required to enforce
political stability.

Requesting "Removal of Restric-
tions for Air and Ground Cross
Border Operations," the Joint
Chiefs said direct action had

to be taken to convince NVN the
U.S. was determined to eliminate
the insurgents’ Laotian sanctuary.
".-The time has come to lift

the restrictions which limit —
the effectiveness of our military
operations."

The Chiefs recommended direct
strikes against North Vietnam.

In line with their view (JCSM
159-64) that the "root of the
problem was North Vietnam, the
JCS justified the need for overt
action against NVN on two grounds:
first, to support the short-term
policy objective of stopping *
Hanoi's aid to the insurgents;
second, to support the long-range
objective of forcing a change in
DRV policy by convincing Hanoi
the U.S. was determined to oppose
aggression in Southeast Asia.

Reiterating his preference for

the "carrot and stick" approach

to Hanoi, Lodge cpposed initiation
of overt actions against North
Vietnam. :

Reporting on his recent trip to
Honolulu and Saigon, McNamara
recommended against overt actions
(U.S. or GVN) against NVN “at

this time" because of the problems
of justification, communist escala-
tion and pressures for premature
negotiations. McNamara felt the
practical range of overt actions
did not allow assured achievement

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
