Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

GVN. 13/ The committee noted this CIA caution but suggested it might
provide a psychological advantage "for South Vietnam to acknowledge
publicly its responsibility for certain of the retaliatory acts taken
against the aggressor." However, the State Department member demurred,
urging that only those operations that were covert and deniable by both
the GVN and the United States be undertaken. His caution reflected
recognition â€œof the risks and the uncertainty as to whether operations
against North Vietnam will materially contribute to our objective of
ending the war." 14/

D. Implications: Greater Pressure on Hanoi

Thus, by early February 1964, the United States had committed
itself to a policy of attempting to improve the situations in South
Vietnam and Laos by subjecting North Vietnam to increasing levels of
direct pressure. Despite explicit assessments that the contemplated
early steps could not achieve its objectives, it had embarked on a pro-
gram which demanded a significant commitment for its South Vietnamese
allies and which in its expected later stages could expose them to con-
siderable risk. Moreover, by initiating a program recognized as giving
little promise of achieving its stated objectives through early actions,
it raised expectancies for continued and intensified operations in later
stages. It can be concluded that either the Administration (1) intended
to continue to pursue the policy of pressuring North Vietnam until these
pressures showed some propensity for suecess, or (2) sought through the
covert operations program to achieve objectives different from those
anticipated during the initial planning. :

TOP SECRET = Sensitive
