Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

DATE

13 Feb 1965

17 Feb 1965

18 Feb 1965

19 Feb 1965

B-52s sent to area

ROLLING THUNDER
approved by President;
DEPTEL to Saigon 1718

CINCPAC nessage
170217 February to
JCS

UK reports Soviet
interest in Geneva
Talks

President schedules
ROLLING THUNDER

SNIE 10-3/1-65

Thao " Semi-c oup"”

Embassy Saigon
message 2665

xii

DESCRIPTION

Approval is given for the dispatch

‘of 30 B-52s to Guam and 30 KC-135s

to Okinewa for contingency’use in
Vietnen,

The President decides to inaugurate
ROLLING THUNDER sustained bombing

of the North under strict limitations
with programs approved on a week-by-
week basis.

Admiral Sharp urges that the strikes
be conceived as “pressures” not
"reprisals" and that any premature
discussions or negotiations with the
DRV be avoided. We must convince them
that the cost of their aggression is
prohibitive.

The UK Ambassador, Lord Harlech, in-
forms Rusk that the Soviets have
approached the UK about reactivating
the 1954 Geneva Conference in the
current Vietnem crisis. After an
initiel US interest, the Soviets back
off and the matter dies.

President Johnson sets February 20 as
the date for the beginning of ROLLING
THUNDER and informs US Ambassadors in
Asia.

The intelligence community gives its
view that sustained attacks on the
DRV would probably cause it to seek
a respite rather than to intensify
the struggle in the South.

Colonel Thao, a longtime conspirator,
launches a “semi-coup" against Khanh,
designed to remove him but not the
Armed Forces Council. He is quickly
defeated but the AFC decides to use
the incident to remove Khanh itself.

'The events drag on for several days.

Taylor recommends urgently that the
ROLLING THUNDER strike be cancelled
until the political situation in Sai-
gon has clarified. The President agrees,
