Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number; NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

50. Frank N. Trager, Why Viet Nam? (New York: Praeger, 1966), 97.

51. U.S. Intelligence Advisory Committee, Viet Minh Violations of the
Geneva Agreements Through 31 December 195h -(IAC-D-93/2, 31 January
1965), 5-8; Also, Anita L. Nutt, Troika on Trial (MS Study for Osp/
ISA, ARPA Contract SD-220, 1967), 410-119; CIA, Current Intelligence
Weekly Review (12 August 1954), 8; CIA, NSC Briefing, 25 January 1955--

the latter cites a Canadian priest as source for reports of serious
fighting in Vinh, Nghe An and Ba Lang, Thanh Hoa Province.

52. ICC, Fourth Interim Report..., op. cit., 12.

53. Ibid., 11, 21. The Canadians reported 11,422 first party petitions
in the North, and not more than 1,000 in the South upon which no
action had been taken as of 18 May 1955.

54. Ibid., 12.
Bie | ec
56. Murti, op. cit., 76-79; CIA, NSC Briefing, 25 Jan 55.

51. ICC, Fourth Interim Report, op.cit., 12-13, 23-2. The Canadian
report includes the following:

"The reports of the teams disclosed further that incidents of
obstruction and hinderance made it difficult for them to complete
their tasks effectively. A comon experience was to encounter
organized groups of persons presenting petitions about forced evacu-
ation and demonstrating in a noisy and disorderly manner, with the
effect that not only was the limited time available to the team for
its investigation squandered, but also would-be evacuees were intimi-
dated....In at least a dozen instances, intending evacuees were physi-
cally molested by such hostile crowds and sometimes forcibly dragged
away before they had an opportunity of meeting the team. Team 56 on
its visit to Ha Tinh on five occasions saw individuals physically
molested and dragged by force from the presence of the team....In our
view this phenomenon was not a mere social manifestation but an
organized plan. While it has been impossible for the Commission to
prove that these measures were organized as a matter of policy by the
authority in control of the North, owing to the frequency and the
common features of this form of obstruction in all provinces investi-
gated there would seem to be little doubt that these obstructions and
hinderances had been deliberately planned...it is still not possible
to say whether all persons wishing to move from one zone to the other
have been able to do so...."

58. Hammer, op. cit., 345; Robert Shaplen, The Lost Revolution (New
York: Harper & Row, 1965), 124-115; Murti, op. cit., 91-92.

1 TOP SECRET - SENSIPIVE
