Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

SECRET

controlled by Kremlin. Fact does remain, however, that a
situation does exist in Indochina which can no longer be
considered, if it ever was considered, to be of a iocal
character. If that situation continues deteriorate some
country in direct interest is very likely to bring matter
before Security Council under Chapter 11 of Charter. We
have no intention taking such action ourselves at this
tine, but French will surely appreciate that we do have

a vital interest in political and economic well being this
area, Jf some country should bring matter before Security
Council we wopld find it difficult to oppose an investiga
tion Indochinese probhem unless negotiations between par-
ties were going on. It might be added that it would not

in our aoe ee be jn France's long-range interest to

use her veto position to keep matter from coming before
Council, Frankly we have no solution_of problem to_sug-
gest. It is basically matter for two parties to work out
themselves and from your reports and those from Indochina
we are led to feel that both parties have endeavored to
keep door open to some sort of settlement. We appreciate
fact that Vietnam started present fighting in Indochina

on December 19 and that this action has mede it more diffi-
cult for French to adopt a position of generosity and -
conciliation, Nevertheless we hope that French will

find it possible to be more than generous in trying to

find a solution.
MARSHALL

WH:PTCulbertson

SECRET
ug
