DATE

21 Nov 64

23 Nov 64

2h Nov 64

27 Nov 64

28 Nov 64

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OF
DOCUMENT

Revised Working
Group Draft

Rostow Memo to Sec
State

NSC Principals Meet-
ing

Taylor Meets with
Principals

NSC Principals Meet-
ing

DESCRIPTION

Having received comments from the
different agencies, the Working
Group revises its draft slightly,
takes note of different viewpoints
and submits its work to the NSC
Principals for the consideration.

Taking a somewhat different tack,
the then Director of State's

Policy Planning Staff, W. W. Rostow,
proposes military pressures against
the North as a method of clearly
signaling U.S. determination and
commitment to the North.

No consensus is reached, but Option
A is generally rejected as promis-
ing only eventuel defeat. Option B
is favored by the JCS and CIA, while
State and OSD favor Option C. No
firm conclusion is reached on the
issue of sending ground troops to
South Vietnan.

Having returned for consultations,
Ambassador Taylor meets with the

NSC Principals and after giving 4
gloomy report of the situation in
South Vietnam, recommends that to
shore up the GVM and improve morale
we take limited actions against the
North but resist negotiations until
the GVN is improved and the DRV is
hurting. He proposed an extended
Option A with the first stages of
Option C. This proposal was adopted
by the Principals as the recommenda-
tion to be made to the President,

In a follow-up meeting, the Prin-
cipals decide to propose a two =
phase program to the President. The
first phase would be a thirty-day

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
