133.

134.

13).

136,

13%.

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

had been clear from the start that "we were not willing

to make a-commitment ahead of time which the French could
use for internal political maneuvering or negotiating at
Genéyasc.." “REDUL 1785, 9 Sime DOSY ccececss cess ewtecins esse

"General Ely has*twice in my presence stated that his
keenest desire is for the United States to enter this

war." The purpose of General Valluy's statement (war
assessment) is either to bring the U.S. and five other
powers into the conflict or to prepare an "excuse before
history" for an armistice. Saigon 2714 to Dulles,

GUC etcicfas Le oY, Sey Oe ALCON cre> Uo MR RO tv myre miners MU tose 29

The French military feel that a Tonkin decision will rest
on U.S. intentions. The French are reluctant to request
"internationalization" which would result in new talks

and provoke new "hopes." The U.S., on the other hand,
does not want to consider a U.S. training mission separate
from the "overall operational plan" on the assumption the
conditions are fulfilled for U.S. participation in Indo-
china. Murphy (Acting SecState) 4508 to Paris, 10 June

195 eeeceev eee eee ene eee eee ee eee eee eet eee ee cece eee eee ae eee

The French impression is that even after all conditions
are met, the chances of U.S, participation are "nil."
With this attitude it is only a matter of time until the
French come to terms with the Viet Minh. The result
would be disastrous to French public opinion and the
"U.S. would be blamed" for having failed in the crisis.
Therefore, it is recommended that the French be informed
that "the President is no longer prepared to request
military intervention" even if France fulfills all con-
ditions. France should strive for an armistice and thus
avoid a military disaster. A few months delay in comnu-
nist takeover in Indochina is not commensurate with
“possible collapse of the defense of Western Europe."
Paris UG. toiDulies, 24) June 1054 ss s4scsicsais snes cleine se saya

The French want, and "in effect have, an option on our
intervention, but they do not want to exercise it and

the date of expiry of our option is fast running out."

TEDUL 197, 1+ June 1954......00. Ba Kaleo waleyetes satewe 2 AS OE

Secretary Dulles emphasizes that events have shown that
predictions he has made all along on the lack of any

real French desire for U.S. intervention but “as a card

to play at Geneva." The U.S. does not see that France's
bitterness is justified considering "prolonged: French

and U.K. indecision." Dulles 4579 to Paris, 14 June 195)....

Page

550

292

293

599

558

929

xxiii TOP SECRET - Sensitive

