08

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

involved with the interests of France and the Associated States in
resisting Communist domination of Indochina."

-10. Address by Secretary Dulles Delivered to the Nation over Radio and
Television, May 7 1954 The Issues at Geneva, Department of State
Bulletin, May 17, 1954, p. 70 and p. Hh:

+ +

"Let me turn now to the problem of Southeast Asia. In thet great
peninsula and the islands to the south live nearly 200 million people
in 7 states -- Burma; the three states of Indochina -- Laos, Cambodia,
and Viet-Nam; Thailand; Malaya; and Indonesia. Communist conquest of
this area would seriously imperil the free world position in the Western
Pacific. It would, among other things, endanger the Philippines,
Australia, and New Zealand, with all of which the United States has
mutual-security treaties. It would deprive Japan of important foreign
markets and sources of food and raw materials.

"In Viet-Nem, one of the three Indochinese states, war has been
going on since 1946. When it began, Indochina was a French colony just
liberated from Japanese occupation. The war started primarily as a war
for independence. What started as a civil war has now been taken over
by international communism for its own purposes. Ho Chi Minh, the
Communist leader in Viet-Nam, was trained in Moscow and got his first
revolutionary experience in China."

* * %*

"In Indochina, the situation is far more complex. The present
conditions there do not provide a suitable basis for the United States
to participate with its armed forces.

"The situation may perhaps be clarified as a result of the Geneva
Conference. The French have stated their desire for an armistice on
honorable terms and under proper safesuards. If they can conclude a
settlement on terms which do not endanger the freedom of the peoples of
Viet-Nam, this would be a real -contribution to the cause of peace in
Southeast Asia. But we would be gravely concerned if an armistice or
cease-fire were reached at Geneva which would provide a road to a Com-
munist takeover and further aggression. If this occurs, or if hos-
tilities continue, then the need will be even more urgent to create the
conditions for united action in defense of the area. â€˜

"In making commitments which might involve the use of armed force,
the Congress is a full partner. Only the Congress can declare war.
President Eisenhower has repeatedly emphasized that he would not take
military action in Indochina without the support of Congress. Further-
more, he has made clear that he would not seek that unless, in his
opinion, there would be an adequate collective effort based on genuine
mutuality of purpose in defending vital interests.

B-15
