/0

31 Aug 66

2 Sep 66

7 Sep 66

11 Sep 66

13 Sep 66

13 Sep 66

13 Sep 66

14 Sep 66

15 Sep 66

16 Sep 66

20 Sep 66

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOr SECRET =- Sensitive

SAIGON 4923

SecDef Memo for CJCS

JCS 1975 to CINCPAC

Cite Unknown

MACV 41191 to CINCPAC

SAIGON 6100

MACY 41676

MACY 8212

i WS:

lodge points out efforts being taken
in Saigon to emphasize pacification.
He begins to express reservations on
need for more troops.

SecDef asks CJCS to explore carefully
all desirable tradeoffs between pias-
ter funding of GVN and US armed
forces in SVN.

JCS informs CINCPAC of Jason Plan for
aerial supported anti-infiltration
barrier.

GVN elections.

CINCPAC comments on anti-infiltration
barrier proposed by Jason study.
Doubts practicality of scheme.

Westmoreland discusses build-up in
Quang Tri Province. Requests au-
thority to use B-52 strikes.

ist Cavalry Division launches 40-day
search and destroy Operation THAYER I
in Binh Dinh Province.

196th Infantry Brigade begins fe-day
search and destroy Operation ATTLEBORO
in Tay Ninh Province, which grows into
jargest operation of war to date.
Other US units involved included all
three brigades of the lst Infantry
Division, the end Brigade of the 25th
Division, the 3rd Brigade of the 4th
infantry Division, and 1 battalion of
the 1/3rd Airborne Brigade.

Embassy gives their latest data on
inflation in SVN; forecast a 44.1
billion piaster inflationary gap in
CY 67.

Westmoreland discusses Slam concept
designed to impede enemy infiltration
thru Laos.

Westmoreland conveys his concern over

enemy forces in sanctuaries to Admiral
sharp. .

a ee
