30 Apr 55

1 May 55

1 May 55

8 May 55

8-11 May 55

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

Revolutionary
Congress
Announced

Bao Dai's
ultimatum

The US: back on the
â€˜ track behind
Diem

A National
Campaign
launched

Tripartite Talks,
Paris

en:

Diem's brother Nhu had a hand

in organizing this broad amalgam
of political interests behind a
program calling for support of
Diem against the Binh Xuyen, sects
and Bao Dai, in favor of broad
representation in the government.
Generals The and Phuong, tired of
the "weak" Revolutionary Congress,
formed a Revolutionary Committee
whose outlook was more anti-Bao
Dai and anti-French than the
Congress. Present and former
Vietminh supporters were members
of the Congress and Committee.

Bao Dai summoned Diem to replace
the Army Chief of Staff with his
own man. Diem ignored the sum-
mons and orders.

Because of Diem's victory --
superficial though it may have
been -- over the Binh Xuyen,
because of VNA support for Diem,
Dulles canceled the cable of 28
April: again, the US will support
Dien.

Diem announced a national cam-
paign to regain "wayward"
provinces and unify the country.
Or: he declared war on the sects.
The VNA fought over a year against
Hoa Hao and Binh Xuyen forces, but
finally established control over
them, over areas of sect influence
and control.

Faure: We cannot support Diem --
but Vietnam is not worth a split
in Franco-American relations.
Therefore, France offers to with-
draw from Vietnam. Dulles: We
must support Diem. But if a US
withdrawal would prevent discord,
the US will consider it. Then,
after hearing JCS and Collins'
arguments against either precipi-
tate French withdrawal or a US
withdrawal, Dalles urged Faure to
accept a new proposal: support

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
