7 June

8 June

9 June

11 June

11 June

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

CINCPAC
0723252

Press
Conference

White House
Press
Release

CINCPAC
1122102

JCSM 457-65

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

which might be required later and

for which planning should begin.

He asked that the 173d be held in
SVN until the Airmobile Division was
operational.

Sharp supported Westmoreland's
request for more troops but added
that he felt the airmobile division
should go to Qui Nhon rather than
inland and should operate in Binh
Dinh instead of up in the highlands.
He felt 600 to 800 tons of aerial
resupply for the division if it went
to the highlands was asking too much
of air facilities. He also felt the
ROK division should go to Quang Neai
rather than to Qui Nhon, where it
would be unproductive, or to Cam Ranh
as Westmoreland had suggested.

McCloskey, State Dept Press Officer,
told the press that U.S. troops
would be made available to fight
alongside Viet forces when and if
necessary.

Statement released which said that
there had been no recent change in
mission of U.S. combat units. They
would help the Viets if help was
requested and COMUSMACV felt U.S.
troops were required.

Sharp elaborated on his earlier
objections to airmobile division
going into highlands and clarified
his views on employment of the

ROKs in either Quang Ngai, Nha Trang,
or the Delta.

JCS, after discussing MACV and

CINCPAC requests with Taylor, :

recommended that the airmobile
division go to Qui Nhon, and
recommended everything else that
Westmoreland had requested. Total
strengths recommended were:
U.S. - 116,793; FW - 19,750.

26 | TOP SECRET - Sensitive
