Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

and local government, and to propagandize the promises of the central
government. Unfortunately for Diem, his civic action teams had to be
drawn from the northern refugees, and encountered Cochinchinese-
Tonkinese tensions. More importantly, however, they incurred the

enmity of the several Saigon ministries upon whose field responsibilities
they impinged. Moreover, they became preoccupied with Diem's anti-
communist campaign to the detriment of their social service. By the

end of 1956, the civic action component of the GVN pacification program
had been cut back severely.

But the salesmen were less at fault than their product. Diem's
reform package compared unfavorably even in theory with what the Viet
Minh had done by way of rural reform. Diem undertook to: (1) resettle
refugees and other land destitute Vietnamese on uncultivated land
beginning in 1955; (2) expropriate all rice land holdings over 2i7
acres and redistribute these to tenant farmers beginning in 1956; and
(3) regulate landlord-tenant relations beginning in 1957 to fix rents
within the range 15-25% of crop yield, and to guarantee tenant land
tenure for 3-5 years. Despite invidious comparison with Viet Minh
rent-free land, had these programs been honestly and efficiently
implemented, they might have satisfied the land-hunger of the peasants.
But they suffered, as one American expert put it from â€œlack of
serious, interested administrators and top side command." Government
officials, beginning with the Minister for Agrarian Reform, had divided
loyalties, being themselves land holders. Moreover, the programs often
operated to replace paternalistic landlords with competitive bidding,
and thus increased, rather than decreased, tenant insecurity. And even
if all Diem's goals had been honestly fulfilled -- which they were not --
only 20% of the rice land would have passed from large to small farmers.
As it turned out, only 10% of all tenant farmers benefited in any sense.
By 1959, the land reform program was virtually inoperative. As of 1960,
45% of the land remained concentrated in the hands of 2% of landowners,
and 15% of the landlords owned 75% of all the land. Those relatively
few farmers who did benefit from the program were more often than not
northerners, refugees, Catholics, or Annamese -- so that land reform
added to the GVN's aura of favoritism which deepened peasant alienation
in Cochinchina. Farmer-GVN tensions were further aggravated by rumors of
corruption, and the widespread allegation that the Diem family itself
had become enriched through the manipulation of land transfers.

Diem's whole rural policy furnishes one example after another of
political maladroitness. In June 1956, Diem abolished elections for
village councils, apparently out of concern that large numbers of Viet
Minh might win office. By replacing the village notables with GVN
appointed officials, Diem swept away the traditional administrative
autonomy of the village officials, and took upon himself and his govern-
ment the onus for whatever corruption and injustice subsequently
developed at that level. Again, the GVN appointees to village office

17 TOP SECRET ~ Sensitive
