68.

69.

70.

Ts

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

NSC Action No. 1074-A considers the problem of determining

the circumstances, conditions, and extent to which the U.S.

should commit its resources to save Indochina. The prob-

lem involves four issues: (1) the prospect of loss of

Indochina; (2) the risks, requirements, and consequences

of intervention; (3) desirability and form of U. S, inter-

vention; and (4) the timing and circumstances of inter-

vention. NSC Action lOTH-A, 5 April 1954... .cescecccccccccsse 298

The U. S,. Army position on intervention in Indochina cites

the military disadvantages of such action. Specifically,

the Army views are that air and naval forces alone cannot

assure victory; that atomic weapons do not reduce the num-

ber of ground troops required; that at least seven U. S.

divisions with air and naval support are required to win

and that the equivalent of twelve U. S. divisions are re-

quired if the Chinese intervene. Army Position on NSC

Aetion No. TO74=A (undated) cccccs csvcccaveiccscsiectaccscncese 352

The President's Special Committee studies the problem to
secure the defeat of Communism and establish a "Western
oriented complex" in Southeast Asia without resort to
overt combat operations by U. S. forces. The report
recommends implementation of courses of action previously
recommended by the JCS (i.e., augment the French Air
Force, assign CIA officials to Indochina, and allocate
additional funds to Indochina); and that selective poli-
tical, military, and psychological steps be taken as 4
matter of priority (i.e., expand MAAG, expand use of U.S.
eovert assets in unconventional warfare field, develop
foreign information campaign, etc,). Part I, "Indochina"
to the President's Special Committee Report on Southeast
Asia (undated)....... peiarw dere’ eie-aiaverete'a water SeuGeyeueiacebuceseos «Sao

The President's Special Committee submits recommendations
concerning longer range policy and courses of action for
possible future contingencies in Southeast Asia not
covered by NSC 5405. It is recommended that the U. S.
accept nothing short of military victory, oppose a nego-
tiated settlement at Geneva, pressure the Associated
States to continue the war with U. S. support even if
negotiations succeed, and seek participation of other
nations. Regardless of the outcome of current operations
in Indochina, the U. S. in all prudence should develop a
regional defense posture incorporating all the Southeast
Asian states. Part II, Special Committee Report ori
Southeast Asia, 5 April 1954........ dba sw erclaieS atone a tees eee ae

ren k TOP SECRET - Sensitive
