Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number; NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

This served only to intensify the rivalry. By mid-June, the Thieu-Ky
confrontation showed no signs of moving toward satisfactory resolution. 6/
Basically, Ambassador Bunker believed in an indirect approach. He did

not hesitate to approach Ky and Thieu individually on the broader issues

of arbitrary press censorship, questionable tactics being pursued by Ky
supporters six weeks before it was legal to campaign, or unity of the
Armed Forces. 9ot/ But, on the confrontation between the two candidates,
Bunker's ploy was to hold an informal luncheon to which the two princi-
pals were invited. In the end they had to work out their own solution. 98/
They did. At the end of June the 50-60 officers of the Armed Forces Council
met in a 2-day, continuous session at which both Thieu and Ky performed
histrionics. The surprising result was that Ky agreed to run for the
Vice-Presidency on Thieu's ticket. 99/ The Mission sighed in relief and
agreed that Bunker's approach had worked. The Ambassador congratulated

the candidates, and Thieu obligingly announced that if elected he would
eppoint a civilian as Premier. Ky agreed. The RVNAF chief of staff had
earlier announced that there would be no officially endorsed military
candidate; yet the Constituent Assembly conveniently approved a draft
article which permitted Thieu and Ky to run without resigning from the
Armed Forces. By mid-July, the Assembly had voted acceptance of the
Thieu-Ky ticket while disallowing one headed by Big Minh who remained

in nearby Bangkok as a potential threat to the younger pair. 100/ With
only a few hitches, the campaigning proceeded so as to satisfy American
observers that it was acceptably fair; and the resultant Thieu-Ky vic-
tory was @ surprise only in its smaller-than-expected plurality.

53 _ TOP SECRET - Sensitive
