69.

70.

71.

72.

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET ~ Sensitive

problem to suggest." George C. Marshall, Secretary
of State, 431 to Paris, 3 February IO4fe ose. noes cave cess

The U.S. is concerned that the Western democratic
system is on the defensive in emerging nations and
Southern Asia is.in a critical phase. The key to
the U.S. position is an awareness that in respect
to the position of Western democratic powers in
Southern Asia, the United States is in the same
boat as the French, British and the Dutch. "We
cannot conceive setbacks to the long range inter-
ests of France which would not also be setbacks of
our own." The U.S. is ready to be helpful in any
way, however, non-intervention is still the U.S.
policy. Marshall 1737.to Paris, 13 May 1947............... 100

The State Department is concerned that a rumored,

dry season French offensive would have repercussions

in a Congress which will be called on for extensive

financial aid to Western Europe in light of France's

economic, financial, and food position. Marshall

3433 to Paris, 11 September 1947............ 1 Â¥eleveslewieie eae) LOS

M. Bollaert, French High Commissioner in Indochina,
delivers publicly the most important declaration

of French policy since before hostilities broke out.
The French ask for a Vietnamese "representative
government" to accept French terms, and exclude
dealing with Ho Chi Minh except as a last resort,
and then only for his surrender. The U.S. sees

this policy resulting from a strengthened France
(and a proportional unwillingness to make con-
cessions) as a "retreat" from the March 6 accords.
O'Sullivan letter to Marshall, 12 September 19h7........... 104

The French deny any planned dry season military
offensive. Caffery 3715 to Marshall, 12 September
io) ee oe ee eee eee ose ee ee ene eoeet ee Peewee eee eee kk eee ee pb Ea

France considers Bollaert's policy speech as a

step forward on two points: formal abandonment

of Indochina federation idea, and acceptance of

the principle of union of the three KYs without

areferenda. Caffery 3753 to Marshall, 14 Sep-

HENDEL- TONY ee wield a sie teeisis we wore Salers isle iele'h lc elsipelb oie eielsiniele's wevie cle?

The Chinese view French policy as making the posi-
tion of U.S. and China difficult and do not see

& successful government without participation of
Ho Chi Minh. The "Chinese people" would not re-
gard a Bao Dai monarchy favorably. Though his

Sin, ees _. . . BOP SECRET - Sensitive

