DATE

10 Oct 1961

11 Oct 1961

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

"Concept of Interven-
tion in Vietnam"

NSC Meeting on
Vietnam

14

Drafted by Alexis Johnson, the paper
blended Rostow's bordet control pro-
posal with the JCS win-control-of-
the-highlands counter-proposal for
the initial mission of U.S, forces
in Vietnam. "The real and ultimate
objective" of U.S. troops was also
addressed. To defeat the Vietcong
and render Vietnam secure under a
non-Communist government, Johnson
"suessed"‚Äù three divisions would be
the ultimete force required in sup-
port of the "real objective." The
paper estimated a satisfactory
settlement in Leos would reduce but
not eliminete infiltration into
South Vietnam, that even if infil-
tration were cut down, there was no
assurance thet the GVN could "in

the foreseeable future be able to
defeat the Viet Cong." Unilateral
U.S. action would probably be neces-
sary. The plan's viability was
dependent on the degree in which the
GVN accelerated "political and mili-
tary action in its own defense."

The NSC considered four papers: the
Alexis Johnson draftyan NIE estimate
that SEATO action would be opposed
by the DRV, Viet Cong and the Soviet
Union (airlift), that these forces
stood a good chance of thwarting the
SEATO intervention; third, a JCS
estimate thet 40,000 U.S. troops
would be required to."clean up the
Viet Cong threat" and another 128,000
men would be needed to oppose
DRV/CHICOM intervention (draining

3 to 4 reserve divisions). Finally,
a memorandum from William Bundy to
McNamara which said "it is really
now or never if we are to arrest the
gains being made by the Viet Cong,"
and gave "an early and hard-hitting
operetion" a 70 percent chance of
doing that. Bundy added, the chance
of cleaning up the situation "depends

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
