DATE

21 Apr

22 Apr

23 Apr

24 Apr

25 Apr

26 Apr

28 Apr

1965

1965

1965

1965

1965

1965

1965

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

SecDef memo to the
President

Intelligence assessment

TS #185843-c

Rusk Speech

U Thant calls for pause

McGeorge Bundy memo

McNamara press briefing

McCone resigns and
submits last memo

DESCRIPIION

328. A plateau on air strikes, more ef-
fort in the South, and the specifics of
force deployments are agreed tO.

Secretary McNamara reports the results of
the Honolulu Conference to the President
and indicates that harmony has been res-
tored among the views of the various
advisors.

The intelligence community indicates that
Without either a massive increase in the
air campaign or the introduction of US
combat troops, the DRV would stick to its
goal of military victory.

In a speech before the American Society
of International Law, Rusk makes first
public mention of interdiction and pun-
ishment as the purposes of the US bombing
rather than breaking Hanoi's will.

U Thant asks the US to suspend the bombing!
for three months in an effort to get ne- |
gotiations. The proposal is rejected in
Washington.

In an effort to clarify internal govern-
ment thinking about negotiations, Bundy
outlines his view of US goals. His expo-
sition is a maximum US position whose
acceptance would amount to surrender by
the other side. :

In @ special briefing for the press com-
plete with maps and charts, McNamara goes
into considerable depth in explaining the
interdiction purposes of the US strikes
against the North.

MeCone who is leaving his post as CIA Dir-
ector (tb be replaced by Admiral Raborn)
submits a last memo to the President op-
posing the build-up of ground forces in
the absence of a greatly intensified cam-
paign against the North.

TOP.SECRET - Sensitive
