43.

bh.

5.

6.

7.

48.

ho,

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

The U.S. and France publicly announce the French resolve
to carry out the declaration of independence for the
Associated States and the approval of additional U. S&S,

aid. State Press Release 529, 30 September 1953........eee05

The U. S. is concerned at the "ill-considered action of
the Vietnamese National Congress" and deplores the at-
mosphere of the National Congress which jeopardizes the

war effort. Dulles 695 to Saigon, 21 October 1953.....eceee-

President Eisenhower approves the statement of NSC 162/2
as basic national security policy which addresses the
Soviet threat to U. S. security. NSC 162/2, 30 October

LBS ec ccews wena swerve sees syst seu eandaiy ese sbalraeiea ay aves

The U. S. informs France that their urgent request for
early delivery of 25 additional c-l7 aircraft for Indo-
china has received Presidential approval. Dulles 1930

HOAFerrs., 25 NOVveEMBer | LOSS aacecies wwisieverecsierelaie's wise sie/sre fsieie elacajaiers

France reassures the U, S, that the Ho Chi Minh interview,
which is considered by Laniel as 98 percent propaganda,
will not affect Indochina policy in any way. Leniel has
"flatly refused" President Auriol's instructions to seek
the earliest possible negotiations with Ho Chi Minh.

Paris 2110 to Dulles, 30 November 1953. ..cscsccrteoncssscanse

Genera] Navarre, CinC French Forces, Indochina, complains
to General Trapnell that the aid requests prepared by the
French have been modified by the MAAG before reaching
Washington. "I cannot accept having my potential whittled
away in such a manner...." Navarre letter to Trapnell,

7 December 1953..... SO OD BUDO CAR end DODO r OO or Got

The CIA estimates the Chinese and Soviet reactions to U, S,
intervention in Indochina with ground, air, and neayal
forces. It is anticipated that the Communist Bloc would
not overtly intervene even though decisive defeat of the
Viet Minh would result but would support and augment the
Viet Minh to prolong the resistance. Special CIA Esti-
Mate, SE=53, doy Decemper LO53) wc cvwnaasveseeueiswwea oss 6 us

167

169

171

201

202

203

vil TOP SECRET - Sensitive
