8 Jan 65

9 Jan 65

11 Jan 65

1h Jan 65

17 Jan 65

22 Jan 65

23 Jan 65

27 Jan 65

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OF
DOCUMENT

First Korean Troops
Go to South Vietnam

Generals Announce
Return to Civilian
Government

US-GVN Aid Discus-
sions Resume

U.S. Laotian Opera-

tions Revealed

Buddhist Riots

Soviets Affirm Sup-

port of DRV

USIS Library Burned
in Hue

McNeughton paper,
"Observations re
South Vietnam After
Khanh's 'Re-Coup'"

DESCRIPTION

The first contingent of 2,000 South
Korean troops leave for South
Vietnam. 5

Under U.S. pressure, the South Viet-
namese generals announce that mat-
ters of state will be left in the
future in the hands of a civilian
government, The joint Huong-Khanh
communique promises to convene a
constituent assembly.

With the return to civilian govern-
ment, the U.S. resumes its discus-
sions with the GVN on aid and
measures to improve the military
situation.

A UPI story reveals the U.S. BARREL
ROLL armed recce missions in Laos
and tells the story of the YANKEE
TRAM armed escort for the RLAF,

. Shortly after the GVN announcement

of increased draft calls, Buddhist
protest riots break out in several
cities against the allegedly anti-
Buddhist military leaders. Disturb-
ances continue through the month.

In letters to Hanoi and Peking,
Gromyko affirms Soviet support for
the DRV struggle against American
imperialism.

Rioting Buddhists burn the USIS
library in Hue.

The U.S. stakes in South Vietnam
were defined as holding buffer land
for Thailand and Malaysia and main-
taining our national honor. They
required continued perseverance in a

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

~f
