DATE

9-15 May 1961

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

Vice President
Johnson Visits
Southeast Asia

DESCRIFIION

commitment, The Ambassador in Saigon
was empowered to open negotiations
about a bilateral treaty out was
directed to make no commitments with-
out further review by the President.
These recommendations from the May 6
Task Force report were approved:

help the GVN increase border patrol
and counterinsurgency capability
through aerial surveillance and new
technological devices; help set up

a center to test new weapons and
techniques; help ARVN implement
health, welfare and public work pro-
jects; deploy a 400-man special forces
group to Ilha Trang to accelerate ARVN
training; instruct JCS, CINCPAC, MAAG
to assess the military utility of an
increase in ARVIN from 170,000 to
200,000 (the two-division increase
recommended previously).

Purpose: to reassure Asian leaders
that despite Laos, the United States
could be counted on to support then.
Johnson reported the mission had
halted the decline of confidence in
the United States, but did not restore
confidence already lost. Johnson
strongly believed that faith must be
restored, the "battle against commu-
nism must be joined in Southeast Asia
with strength and determination" (or
the US would be reduced to a fortress
America with defenses pulled back to

California's shores); he believed

there was no alternative to US leader-
ship in Southeast Asia but that any
help extended ~~ military, economic,
social -- must be part of a mutual
effort and contingent upon Asian
willingness to "take the necessary
measures to make our aid effective."
He reported that American troops were
neither required nor desired by Asian
leaders at this time.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
