BS
fos

21 Aug 67
1 Sep 67
7 Sep 67

10 Sep 67

20 Sep 67

21 Sep 67

22 Sep 67

29 Sep 67

6 Oct 67

8 Oct 67

17 Oct 67

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

US aircraft lost over China
President's ereee conference
Hanoi prohibition extended
Campha, port struck

CINCPAC msg 202352Z Sep 67
CINCPAC msg 2100282 Sep 67

CM-2660-67

San Antonio Formula

CM-2679-67

CINCPAC msg 080762Z Oct 67

JCSM 555-67

_ 20

Two US planes are shot down
over China after having strayed
off course.

The President denies any policy
rift within the Administration
on the bombing.

The prohibition of attack in
the 10-mile Hanoi zone is
extended indefinitely.

For the first time the port
of Campha is struck including
its docks.

CINCPAC recommends hitting the
MIGs at Phuc Yen air field and
air defense controls at Bac Mai.

Sharp urges lifting the 10-
mile prohibition around Hanoi.

General Johnson (Acting CJCS)
agrees with CINCPAC: hit Phuc
Yen and Bac Mai and lift the
10-mile restriction.

The President offers a new
basis for stopping the bombing
in a San Antonio speech:
assurance of productive dis-
cussions and that no advantage
will be taken of the cessation.

Specific authority to hit the
Hanoi power plant is requested.

Sharp again requests authority
to strike Phuc Yen.

Reviewing the objectives and
limitations of the bombing
policy for the President, the
Chiefs recommended ten new
measures against NVM including
mining the ports and removal
of all current restrictions on
the bombing.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
