Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET

pos atniy reducing the drain on the United States economy. The in-
digenous forces of Asia, including manpower reserves, would also be
&@ valuable asset, if. available for the support of the United States
in the event of war. Thirdly, Asia sad source of numerous raw ne
terials, principally tin and natural rubber, which are of etpareete
importance to the United States, although the United States could,
as in World War II, rely on other sourdes if necessary.

32. Since, from the military point of view, the primary stra-
tegic interests and war objectives of the United States consistent
with the aim of destruction of the enemy's means to wage war are not
now in Asia, the current basic concept of strategy in the event of
war with the USSR is to conduct 4 strategic offense in the "West"
and a strategic defense in the "East". In keeping with this basic
concept and in light of the strategic interests of the United States
and the USSR as developed above, certain principles may be steted.
As a primary matter in the event of war, it is essential that a suc-
cessful strategic defense in the "Rast" be assured with a minimum
expenditure of military manpower and material in order that the
major effort may be expended in the "West". In order to gain free-
dom of access to the Asian continent within these limitations, the
United States must now concentrate its efforts on bringing to bear
such power as can be made available, short of the commitment of
United States military forces, in' those areas which will show the
most results in return for the United States effort expended. In
addition the United Stetes must maintain a strategic position which

will facilitate control of coastal and overseas lines of communics-

tion in Asia.

256

NSC 48/1 TOP SECRET
