Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316, By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

A glance at some of the commentary of early March 1965 in newspapers
and periodicals gives clear indication that the landing of the two Marine
BLT's was seen as an event of major significance. Analysis of the import
of the event varies, as would be expected, from writer to writer, but
almost without exception they read more into the deployment than was made
explicit by the brief Defense Department press release. By-lines from
Saigon, where reporters had ready access to "reliable sources" in the U.S.
Mission, give clear indication that there had been a major shift in atti-
tude as regards the use of U.S. ground forces in Asia. Ted Sell, a Los
Angeles Times staff writer, wrote on 10 March 1965. "The landing of the
two infantry battalions is in its own way a far more significant act than
were earlier attacks by U.S. airplanes, even though those attacks were
directed against a country -- North Vietnam -- ostensibly not taking part
in the direct war." Speaking after the Marines were ordered in, one high
official said of the no-ground-troops-in-Asia shibboleth, "Sure, it's
undesirable. But that doesn't mean we won't do it." 33/ It is especially
significant that among the writers attempting to gauge the extent of U.S.
resolve in the Vietnamese situstion, the deployment of ground forces was
somehow seen as a much more positive and credible indication of U.S. de-
termination than any of the steps, including the air strikes on the DRV,
previously taken.

213 | TOP SECRET - Sensitive
