Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

on the territory of any of the Parties
in Europe or North America, on the
Algerian Departments of France** on
the territory of Turkey or on the
islands under the jurisdiction of any
of the Parties in the North Atlantic
area north of the Tropic of Cancer;

on the forces, vessels, or aircraft of
any of the Parties, when in or over
these territories or any other area in
Furope in which occupation forces of
any of the Parties were stationed on
the date when the Treaty entered into
force or the Mediterranean Sea or the
North Atlantic area north of the
Tropic of Cancer.

ARTICLE 7

This Treaty does not affect, and shall
not be interpreted as affecting, in
any way the rights and obligations
under the Charter of the Parties

which are members of the United
Nations, or the primary responsi-
bility of the Security Council for

the maintenance of international

peace and security.

ARTICLE 8

Fach Party declares that none of the
international engagements now in force

Â¥*% On 16th January, 1963, the French

territories of the Asian Parties,

and the general area of the South-
West Pacific not including the
Pacific area north of 21 degrees 30
minutes north latitude. The Parties
may, by unanimous agreement, amend
this Article to include within the
Treaty Area the territory of any
State acceding to this Treaty in
accordance with Article VII or other-

wise to change the Treaty Area.

[this emphasis on flexibility of
application is not in the NATO
Treaty./ .

ARTICLE VI

This Treaty does not affect and shall
not be interpreted as affecting in
any way the rights and obligations of
any of the Parties under the Charter
of the United Nations or the responsi-
bility of the United Nations for the
maintenance of international peace
and security. Each Party declares
that none of the international
engagements now in force between it
and any other of the Parties or any
third party is in conflict with the
provisions of this Treaty, and under-
takes not to enter into any inter-
national engagement in conflict with
this Treaty. i

Representative made a statement to the
North Atlantic Council on the effects
of the independence of Algeria on cer-
tain aspects of the North Atlantic
Treaty. The Council noted that insofar
as the former Algerian Departments of
France were concerned the relevant
clauses of this Treaty had become
inapplicable as from 3rd July, 1962.

A-41 TOP SECRET - Sensitive
