Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET

+ the southeast Asia countries do not possess leaders practiced in
the exevcise of responsible power. The question of whether a
colonial country is fit to govern itself, however, is not always
relevent in practical politics, : The real issue would seem to be
whether the colonial country is abte ene determined to make
continued foreign rule an overall losing proposition for the metro-
politan power. If it is, independence for the colonial country is
the only practical solution, even though misgovernment eventuates.
A solution of the consequent problem of instability, if it arises,
must be sought on & non-imperialist plane. In any event, colonial-
nationalist conflict provides a fertile field for subversive
communist activities, and it is now clear that southeast Aisa is the
target of a coordinated offensive directed by the Kremlin, In
seeking to gain control of southeast Asia, the Kremlin is motivated
in part by 4 Gesire to acquire southeast Asia's resources and
communication lines, and to deny ,them to us. But the political
gains which would accrue to the USSR from communist capture of
southeast Asia are equally significant. Phe extension of communist
authority in China represents a grievous polltical defeat for us;
if southeast Asia also is swept by communism we shall have suffered
@ major political rout the repercussions of which will be felt
throughout the rest of the world, especially in the Middle Best and
in a then critically exposed Australia. The United States should
continue to use its influence looking toward resolving the colonial
nationalist conflict in such a way as to satisfy the fundamental

demands of the nationalist-colonial conflict, lay the basis for

wsc 48/1 ' OP SECRET

248
