DATE

3 Nov 64.

hk Nov 64

14 Nov 64

17 Nov 64

18 Nov 64.

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3

NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 201 |

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR
DOCUMENT

President Re-
elected

JCSM 933-6)

CGCS Memorandum to
SecDef, CM 258-64;
and JCSM 955-64.

Working Group Circu-
lates Draft "Options"
for Comment

JCSM 967-64

Lx

DESCRIPTION

State, John McNaughton from ISA,

Harold Ford for CIA, and Admiral

Lloyd Mustin from JCS. Work con-
tinues for three weeks.

In a landslide victory, President
Johnson is re-elected with a new
Vice President, Hubert Humphrey.

The JCS place in writing their re-
quest for reprisal action against
North Vietnam in retaliation for
the Bien Hoa attack. Failure to act
may be misinterpreted by the North
Vietnamese as a lack of will and
determination in Vietnam,

In separate memos to the Secretary,
the JCS recommend covert GVN air
strikes against North Vietnam and
additional U.S. deployments to South
Bast Asia to make possible implemen-
tation of U.S. strikes should these
â€˜be approved.

The Working Group circulates its
draft paper on the "Options" avail-
able to the U.S. in South Vietnam.
They are three: (A) continuation

of present policies in the hope of
an improvement in the South but
strong U.S. resistance to negotia-
tions; (B) strong U.S. pressures
against the North and resistance of
negotiations until the DRV was

ready to comply with our demands;
and (C) limited pressures against the
North coupled with vigorous efforts
to get negotiations started and
recognition that we would have to
compromise our objectives. Option B
is favored by the Working Group.

The JCS renews its recommendation
for strikes against the North tem-
pering it slightly in terms of "a
controlled program of systematically
increased military pressures."

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
