LS

DATE

25 Oct 1961

1 Nov 1961

1 Nov 1961

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

EVENT OR DOCUMENT

Saigon Message 536

BAGUIO Message 0005

BAGUIO 0006 EYES ONLY
FOR THE PRESIDENT

. 16

DESCRIPTION

Taylor reported the pervasive crisis
of confidence and serious loss in
Vietnamese national morale created
by Laos and the flood, weakened the
war effort. To cope with this Taylor
recommended: Improvement of intelli-
gence on the VC; building ARVN
mobility; blocking infiltration into
the highlands by organizing a border
ranter force; introduction of U.S.
forces either for emergency, short-
term assistance, or for more sub-
stantial, long-term support (a flood
relief plus military reserve task
force). Diem had reacted favorably
"on all points."

Taylor told the President, Rusk and
McNamara "we should put in a task
force (6-8,000 men) consisting
largely of logistical troops for
the purpose of participating in flood —
relief and at the same time of pro-
viding a U.S. military presence in
Vietnam capable of assuring Diem of
our readiness to join him in a mili-
tary showdown with the Viet Cong..."

Taylor concluded that the communist
strategy of taking over Southeast
Asia by guerrilla warfare was "well
on the way to success in Vietnam";

he said the GVN was caught in “inter-
locking circles" of bad tactics and
bad administrative arrangements"
which allow VC gains and invite a
political crisis. He recommended
more U.S. support for paramilitary
groups and ARVN mobility; the MAAG
should be reorganized and increased
and the task force introduced to
"conduct such combat operations as
are necessary for self-defense and
for the security of the area in which
(it) is stationed," among other
things. Taylor felt the disadvan-
tages of deployment were outweighed
by gains, said SVN is "not an ex-

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
