Hope

7

ote Date

6 (Continued)

7 16 Jun 54
8 iy gel.iSt
18 Jul 54

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

Geneva Conference Declarations of GVN

Continued

On Partition

"The de facto partition...does

not take any account of the unani-
mous will for national unity of
the Vietnamese people...Vietnam
would prefer...provisional control

_ by the United Nations over a truly

unified and independent Vietnam to
its maintenance in power in a coun-
try dismembered and condemned to
slavery."

"In order to avoid misunder-
standing [fran Van Do/ wished to
state firmly that Vietnam dele-
gation could not associate itself
with any discussion of this [Final
Declaration/...Vietnam does not
agree to conditions advanced for
eessation of hostilities...Delega-
tion of Vietnam can only protest
the idea of partition...Vietnamese
delegation flatly rejects both
drafts submitted to the conference
»..Vietnamese delegation cannot
accept declaration or agreement
where Vietnam, which /was/ invited
to the conference as /an/ existing
state, /is/ not even mentioned."

B-23

the present circumstances, means
that elections could not possibly
be honest and true, the Delega-
tion of the State of Vietnam has
proposed that elections should
take place under international
supervision."

The GVN, "In our proposal of

May 12, have taken the initiative
on proposing elections...these
elections must be free, sincere,
and supervised. The best control
would be exercised by the U.N."

"Regroupment...reinforces the
threat that they constitute to

‘the free expression of the will

of the people. Therefore not
only does such a cease fire not-
lead to a durable peace, since, .
ignoring the will for national
unity, it provokes the people
to ‘unify’ the country, but, by
the consolidation of the armed
forces now facing each other, it
violates in advance the liberty
of the future elections...The
cease fire...far from leading
to peace, makes peace improbable
and precarious."

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
