ee Jun 67
3 Jul 67
5 Jul 67
7-11 Jul 67

18 Jul 67
9 Aug 67

9-25 Aug 67

11-12 Aug 67
19 Aug 67

20 Aug 67

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET - Sensitive

Glassboro Conference

SecAF memo to McNamara

JCSM 382-67

McNamara trip to Vietnam

JCS msg 1859
Addendum to RT 57

Stennis Hearings

Hanoi struck
Attacks on Hanoi suspended

Largest attack of the war

19

President Johnson meets Soviet
Premier Kosygin at Glassboro,
N.J. No breakthrough on the
war.

In a lengthy analytical memo
Brown argues for option C,

a general expansion of the
bombing.

The Chiefs reject a Canadian
proposal to exchange a bombing
halt for re-demilitarization
of the DMZ.

During McNamara's five day
trip, CINCPAC argues against
any further limitation of the
bombing.

RT 57 will be only a limited
extension of previous targets.
No cutback is planned.

Sixteen JCS fixed targets are
added to RT 57 including six
within the 10-mile Hanoi zone.

The Senate Preparedness Sub-
committee hears two weeks of
testimony on the air war from
Wheeler, Sharp, McConnell and
finally McNamara. The commit-
tee's report condemns the
Administration's failure to
follow military advice.

Several of the newly author-
ized Hanoi targets, including
the Paul Doumer Bridge are struck.

CINCPAC is ordered to susperd
attacks on Hanoi's 10-mile
zone from 24 Aug to 4 Sep.

209 sorties are flown, the

highest number in the war to
date.

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
